docs(gatsby-github-pages): deploy with travis CI (#17281)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/how-gatsby-works-with-github-pages.md

If you use a [custom domain](https://help.github.com/articles/using-a-custom-domain-with-github-pages/), don't add a `pathPrefix` as it will break navigation on your site. Path prefixing is only necessary when the site is _not_ at the root of the domain like with repository sites.

**Note**: Don't forget to add your [CNAME](https://help.github.com/articles/troubleshooting-custom-domains/#github-repository-setup-errors) file to the `static` directory.

> ### Deploying to GitHub pages from Travis CI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploying to GitHub pages from a CI server
```

> When using `gh-pages` npm module to deploy from a Travis CI (or other build systems), we need to configure it with proper credentials so that `gh-pages` is able to push the new branch.

Reviewer: The sentence was a bit hard to read IMO. Unsure if this is better 😛 

```suggestion
When we want to deploy our website through `gh-pages` through a CI server, in this example, we'll use Travis CI (any build system will suffice). We want to use [gh-pages npm module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages) to do our deploy. We need to configure it with proper credentials so that `gh-pages` is able to push the new branch.

```

#### Step 1 - obtain a GitHub token

> To push changes from the CI system to GitHub you'll need to authenticate, a good way for doing this is using GitHub developer tokens.

Reviewer: The sentence was a bit too long so I've shortened it.
```suggestion
To push changes from the CI system to GitHub, you'll need to authenticate. We recommend using GitHub developer tokens.
```

In GitHub go to your account settings -> Developer settings -> Personal access tokens, and create a new token that provides the `repo` access permissions.

> In Travis's configuration for the repository add a new secret environment variable of the name `GH_TOKEN` with the value of the token obtained from GitHub and make sure you DO NOT toggle the "display in build logs" setting as the token should remain secret, or else others would be able to push to your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Travis's configuration for the repository add a new secret environment variable of the name `GH_TOKEN` with the value of the token obtained from GitHub. Make sure you DO NOT toggle the "display in build logs" setting as the token should remain secret. Or else others would be able to push to your repository.
```

#### Step 2 - deploy run script 

> Update the Gatsby project's `package.json` to also include a `deploy` run script which invokes `gh-pages` with two important command argumnets:

Reviewer: Small typo
```suggestion
Update the Gatsby project's `package.json` to also include a `deploy` run script which invokes `gh-pages` with two important command arguments:
```

1. `-d public` - specifies the directory in which the built files exist and will be pushed as a source to GitHub pages

> 2. `-r URL` - the GitHub repository URL, including the use of a GitHub token to be able to to push changes to the `gh-pages` branch, in the form of `https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/<github username>/<github repository name>.git` 

Reviewer: small typo: double to
```suggestion
2. `-r URL` - the GitHub repository URL, including the use of a GitHub token to be able to push changes to the `gh-pages` branch, in the form of `https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/<github username>/<github repository name>.git` 
```

Reviewer 2: Should we add again it's a secret GitHub token and leave the variable here and not change it to the token?

Here's an example:

```json
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "gatsby build --prefix-paths && gh-pages -d public -r https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/lirantal/dockly.git"
  }
```

#### Step 3 - Update .travis.yml for 

The following `.travis.yml` configuration provides a reference:

```yaml
language: node_js
before_script:

>   - npm install -g gatsby

Reviewer: You'll need to install gatsby-cli globally instead of gatsby.
```suggestion
  - npm install -g gatsby-cli
```

node_js:
  - "10"
deploy:
  provider: script
  script: cd docs/ && yarn install && yarn run deploy
  skip_cleanup: true
  on:
    branch: master
```

To break-down the important bits here for deploying the Gatsby website from Travis to GitHub pages:
1. `before_script` is used to install the Gatsby CLI so it can be used in the project's run script to build the Gatsby website

> 2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the `master` branch, in which case it will fire off the `script`, which in this case is a Gatsby site located in the `docs/` directory, in which it needs to install all the website dependencies and run the deploy script as was set in the previous step.

Reviewer: A lot of chaining was done with which so I tried to rewrite it a bit better to use less which.

```suggestion
2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the master branch, in which case it will fire off the  deploy script. Our Gatsby site is located in the docs/ directory. We'll first need to install all the website dependencies and run the deploy script as was set in the previous step.
```

If you use a [custom domain](https://help.github.com/articles/using-a-custom-domain-with-github-pages/), don't add a `pathPrefix` as it will break navigation on your site. Path prefixing is only necessary when the site is _not_ at the root of the domain like with repository sites.

**Note**: Don't forget to add your [CNAME](https://help.github.com/articles/troubleshooting-custom-domains/#github-repository-setup-errors) file to the `static` directory.

### Deploying to GitHub pages from a CI server

> When we want to deploy our website through `gh-pages` through a CI server, in this example, we'll use Travis CI (any build system will suffice). We want to use [gh-pages npm module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages) to do our deploy. We need to configure it with proper credentials so that `gh-pages` is able to push the new branch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's also possible to deploy your website to `gh-pages` through a CI server. This example uses Travis CI, a hosted Continuous Integration service, but other CI systems could work as well. 

You can use the [gh-pages npm module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages) to deploy. But first, you need to configure it with proper credentials so that `gh-pages` is able to push a new branch.
```

Updating to use "you" as the pronoun to follow the Gatsby Style Guide.

> #### Step 1 - obtain a GitHub token

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Obtain a GitHub token for authenticating with CI
```
This is a reference guide and not a tutorial, so it would benefit from more general headings rather than "steps".

> To push changes from the CI system to GitHub, you'll need to authenticate. We recommend using GitHub developer tokens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To push changes from the CI system to GitHub, you'll need to authenticate. It's recommended to use [GitHub developer tokens](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line).
```

In GitHub go to your account settings -> Developer settings -> Personal access tokens, and create a new token that provides the `repo` access permissions.

> In Travis's configuration for the repository add a new secret environment variable of the name `GH_TOKEN` with the value of the token obtained from GitHub. Make sure you DO NOT toggle the "display in build logs" setting as the token should remain secret. Or else others would be able to push to your repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Travis's configuration for the repository, add a new secret environment variable of the name `GH_TOKEN` with the value of the token copied from GitHub. Make sure you **DO NOT toggle the "display in build logs" setting to on** as the token should remain secret. Otherwise, strangers would be able to push to your repository (a big security issue).
```

> #### Step 2 - deploy run script 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Add a script to deploy to gh-pages via CI
```

> Update the Gatsby project's `package.json` to also include a `deploy` run script which invokes `gh-pages` with two important command arguments:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Update the Gatsby project's `package.json` to also include a `deploy` run script which invokes `gh-pages` with two important command-line arguments:
```

1. `-d public` - specifies the directory in which the built files exist and will be pushed as a source to GitHub pages

> 2. `-r URL` - the GitHub repository URL, including the use of a GitHub token to be able to push changes to the `gh-pages` branch, in the form of `https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/<github username>/<github repository name>.git` 

Reviewer 2: Maybe again point to not expose secret GitHub tokens?

```suggestion
2. `-r URL` - the GitHub repository URL, including the use of the secret GitHub token (as a secret environment variable)  to be able to push changes to the `gh-pages` branch, in the form of `https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/<github username>/<github repository name>.git` 
```

Author: Yep sounds good!

> Here's an example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here's an example (be sure to update the user and repo names to your own):
```

```json
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "gatsby build --prefix-paths && gh-pages -d public -r https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/lirantal/dockly.git"
  }
```

> #### Step 3 - Update .travis.yml for 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Update .travis.yml configuration
```

The following `.travis.yml` configuration provides a reference:

```yaml
language: node_js
before_script:
  - npm install -g gatsby-cli
node_js:
  - "10"
deploy:
  provider: script

>   script: cd docs/ && yarn install && yarn run deploy

Reviewer 3: I could see the `docs` directory thing tripping people up if their Gatsby site isn't set up that way. Can we eliminate that variable and make it deploy without it?

Author: Yep. Maybe we can add a small note to explain why one would need it thought. WDYT?

Reviewer 3: Sure. I would recommend putting the note before the code snippet, since someone might start copying it and then get confused.

Author: @marcysutton could we land this PR first and then take up other improvements? I'm a bit low on time due to travel in the next couple of weeks

Reviewer: I believe it's okay as we refer to `/docs` folder multiple times in this page. We could add a yaml comment above.
```suggestion
  # We'll change directory into "docs" (change "docs" in the directory where your gatsby-site lives).
  script: cd docs/ && yarn install && yarn run deploy
```

  skip_cleanup: true
  on:
    branch: master
```

To break-down the important bits here for deploying the Gatsby website from Travis to GitHub pages:
1. `before_script` is used to install the Gatsby CLI so it can be used in the project's run script to build the Gatsby website

> 2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the master branch, in which case it will fire off the  deploy script. Our Gatsby site is located in the docs/ directory. We'll first need to install all the website dependencies and run the deploy script as was set in the previous step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the master branch, in which case it will fire off the  deploy script. The Gatsby site referenced in this example is located in the `docs/` directory. CI will first need to install all the website dependencies and run the deploy script as was set in the previous step.
```

**Note**: Don't forget to add your [CNAME](https://help.github.com/articles/troubleshooting-custom-domains/#github-repository-setup-errors) file to the `static` directory.

### Deploying to GitHub pages from a CI server

It's also possible to deploy your website to `gh-pages` through a CI server. This example uses Travis CI, a hosted Continuous Integration service, but other CI systems could work as well.

You can use the [gh-pages npm module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages) to deploy. But first, you need to configure it with proper credentials so that `gh-pages` is able to push a new branch.

#### Obtain a GitHub token for authenticating with CI

To push changes from the CI system to GitHub, you'll need to authenticate. It's recommended to use [GitHub developer tokens](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line).

In GitHub go to your account settings -> Developer settings -> Personal access tokens, and create a new token that provides the `repo` access permissions.

> In Travis's configuration for the repository, add a new secret environment variable of the name `GH_TOKEN` with the value of the token copied from GitHub. Make sure you **DO NOT toggle the "display in build logs" setting to on** as the token should remain secret. Otherwise, strangers would be able to push to your repository (a big security issue).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In [Travis's configuration for the repository](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables/#defining-variables-in-repository-settings), add a new secret environment variable of the name `GH_TOKEN` with the value of the token copied from GitHub. Make sure you **DO NOT toggle the "display in build logs" setting to on** as the token should remain secret. Otherwise, strangers would be able to push to your repository (a big security issue).
```

> #### Step 2 - deploy run script

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Add script to deploy to GitHub Pages via CI
```
Like above, these headings shouldn't have steps in them since this isn't a guided tutorial. Making the titles descriptive should be sufficient.

Update the Gatsby project's `package.json` to also include a `deploy` run script which invokes `gh-pages` with two important command-line arguments:

1. `-d public` - specifies the directory in which the built files exist and will be pushed as a source to GitHub pages
2. `-r URL` - the GitHub repository URL, including the use of the secret GitHub token (as a secret environment variable) to be able to push changes to the `gh-pages` branch, in the form of `https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/<github username>/<github repository name>.git`

Here's an example (be sure to update the user and repo names to your own):

```json
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "gatsby build --prefix-paths && gh-pages -d public -r https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/lirantal/dockly.git"
  }
```

> #### Step 3 - Update .travis.yml for

Reviewer 3: Same as above - this title should stand by itself in a reference guide. It also looks incomplete.
```suggestion
#### Update .travis.yml configuration
```

The following `.travis.yml` configuration provides a reference:

```yaml
language: node_js
before_script:
  - npm install -g gatsby-cli
node_js:
  - "10"
deploy:
  provider: script

>   # We'll change directory into "docs" (change "docs" in the directory where your gatsby-site lives).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  # Note: change "docs" to the directory where your gatsby-site lives, if necessary
```
This needs to adhere to the Gatsby Style Guide

Reviewer: Thanks @marcysutton! ❤️

  script: cd docs/ && yarn install && yarn run deploy
  skip_cleanup: true
  on:
    branch: master
```

To break-down the important bits here for deploying the Gatsby website from Travis to GitHub pages:

1. `before_script` is used to install the Gatsby CLI so it can be used in the project's run script to build the Gatsby website

> 2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the master branch, in which case it will fire off the deploy script. Our Gatsby site is located in the docs/ directory. We'll first need to install all the website dependencies and run the deploy script as was set in the previous step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the master branch, in which case it will fire off the deploy script. In the above example, the Gatsby site is located in a `docs/` directory. The script changes into that directory, installs all the website dependencies, and runs the deploy script as was set in the previous step.
```
Also updating for the Style Guide https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#use-you-as-the-pronoun

> 2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the master branch, in which case it will fire off the deploy script. In the above example, the Gatsby site is located in a `docs/` directory. The script changes into that directory, installs all the website dependencies, and runs the deploy script as was set in the previous step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the master branch, in which case it will fire off the deploy script. In the above example, the Gatsby site is located in a `docs/` directory. The script changes into that directory, installs all the website dependencies, and runs the deploy script as was set in the previous step.

Committing and pushing both the `.travis.yml` and `package.json` files to your base branch will be the final step in the process.
```
This guide would benefit from some kind of concluding sentence so people know where to go from here.
